feat: Editorial review: Login Status API and friends (#31658)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/set-login/index.md

---
title: Set-Login
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Login
page-type: http-header
browser-compat: http.headers.Set-Login
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

> The **`Set-Login`** {{Glossary("Response header", "response header")}} sets the login status of a federated identity provider (IdP), when set in a top-level navigation or a same-origin subresource request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Set-Login`** {{Glossary("Response header", "response header")}} sets the login status of a user to a federated identity provider (IdP).
It is set in a in a top-level navigation or a same-origin subresource request.
```

Reviewer: What does  "when set in a top-level navigation or a same-origin subresource request." mean?

I think it means if you're doing any navigating around the idp site, eg. to log in or log out or do something else it can set your login status?

Author: I've updated this to

> It can be set in a top-level navigation or a same-origin subresource request on the IdP's origin site — basically, any request occuring within the IdP site can be used to set login status.

Does that make sense?

Reviewer: Yes. If the user of the RP goes to the IDP, any navigation or interaction may result in this header being sent back.

See [Update login status using the Login Status API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#update_login_status_using_the_login_status_api) for more information about FedCM login status.

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>{{Glossary("Response header")}}</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>no</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
Set-Login: status
```

## Directives

- `status`

>   - : A string representing the login status to set for the IdP. Possible values are `logged-in` and `logged-out`. Servers should ignore this header if it contains any other value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A string representing the login status to set for the IdP. Possible values are `logged-in` and `logged-out`. Browsers should ignore this header if it contains any other value.
```

Author: updated

---
title: Set-Login
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Login
page-type: http-header
browser-compat: http.headers.Set-Login
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

> The **`Set-Login`** {{Glossary("Response header", "response header")}} sets the login status of a user to a federated identity provider (IdP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Set-Login`** {{Glossary("Response header", "response header")}} sets the login status of a user with a federated identity provider (IdP).
```

Author: I'm not sure about this. It is telling the browser to set its log status to `logged-in` or `logged-out`. To me, "indicates" just sounds like it is reporting its status, but nothing is being set. 

I ended up updating this paragraph to

> The **`Set-Login`** {{Glossary("Response header", "response header")}} is sent by a federated identity provider (IdP) to set its login status in the browser. This is used by the [FedCM API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API) to reduce the number of requests required when authenticating a user to a relying party (RP) using an IdP.

Does that work for you?

Reviewer: Hmmm. Doesn't this read like the IdP is setting its login status with the browser, while it is actually setting the user login status?

I'm thinking perhaps we revert and then a slight modification of your second sentence?

> The **`Set-Login`** {{Glossary("Response header", "response header")}} sets the login status of a user to a federated identity provider (IdP).
> This is stored in the browser and used by the [FedCM API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API) to reduce the number of requests required when authenticating a user to a relying party (RP) using an IdP.

Author: OK, I've made another bunch of changes to the relevant pages. I've used your second sentence here, or variations of it, as that is good. But I still have issues with the first sentence — I am worried that it will confuse people and make them think that we are talking about setting the login status of a particular user, whereas in actual fact it is the login status of the IdP, as denoted whether _any_ user is logged in or not (the IdP and RP don't know which one at that stage).

So I've gone for the approach of keeping my working, but providing a definition of what we mean. For example:

> The **Login Status API** allows an IdP to inform a browser of its login (sign-in) status in that particular browser — by this, we mean "whether any users are logged into the IdP on the current browser or not".

This is the wording I've gone for on the IDP integration page.

> The **`Set-Login`** {{Glossary("Response header", "response header")}} sets the login status of a user to a federated identity provider (IdP).

Reviewer: If possible a link ^^^^ around "federated identity provider (IdP)" to a definition, because at this point I don't think you can assume a reader will know what that is. I do see the "See also" but that's a general link.

Author: I've now got a link to the FedCM API in this paragraph, so I think we are OK now?

> This is stored by the browser and can reduce the number of requests required when authenticating a user to a relying party (RP) using an IdP.

Reviewer: Ditto link to RP if you can

Author: See above comment.

> It can be set in a top-level navigation or a same-origin subresource request on the IdP's origin site — basically, any request occuring within the IdP site can be used to set login status.

Reviewer: A bit pedantic, but " same-origin subresource request" reads a bit as though the header is set on a request, while it is set on the response.

```suggestion
The header may be set on any response resulting from a top-level navigation or a same-origin subresource request on the IdP's origin site — basically, any interaction with the IdP site may result in this header being set, and the login status being stored by the browser.
```

Author: Sure thing; your wording sounds good, so I've used it verbatim.
